welcome back to movies explained today
we are looking at the 2015 movie called
howl a man named joe who is a trained
guard is checking on the passengers he
completes his shift goes into the locker
room and takes out a letter the letter
informs him that he has not been
selected for the promotion to be a
supervisor he stares at a disappointed
and finally tosses it away david comes
to inform him that he has to do a night
shift because ken called in sick he asks
joe to be more like a man and give
people penalties he flaunts his
supervisor badge and leaves joe goes to
the train welcomes the passengers and
starts checking the tickets he asks kate
to show him the ticket but she can't
seem to find it so he charges her the
full fare kate yells at joe and tells
him that she rides the train every day
and this is no way to treat her joe gets
39 pounds from her and tells her about
the rules and that he can't do anything
about it he keeps checking the other
passengers tickets when he sees a lady
serving food to the people he looks
happy to see her joe talks to ellen
about his double shift when ellen tells
him that she's sorry he didn't get a
promotion she further tells him that
david told everyone about it joe replies
i am not surprised something better will
come up i am sure joe asks ellen for a
drink after their shifts but she excuses
and dismisses his idea she wishes him
good luck for the supervisor thing and
carries on with her work joe sits down
beside a window and looks out suddenly
there's a loud noise in the train stops
with a bang joe gets up from his seat
and goes to check out the situation he
walks to the door to check on the
passengers when the driver announces
that they will resume shortly and
apologizes for the bump adrian helps
ellen get a trolley together joe tries
to help her but she sends him away to
see how the passengers are doing
the driver tony goes outside in the rain
to see what the cause of the bump was he
takes out his torch and starts walking
to spot the problem joe tries to calm
the people but ends up getting yelled
and shouted at the passengers become
angry at the interruption when he tells
them that the driver is looking for the
cause of the bump so they should wait he
talks to the driver to ask about the
situation but gets no answer so he sits
there waiting to get a response driver
spots a dead deer stuck under the train
he tries to remove it but is distracted
by the rustling of the leaves a
wolf-like creature attacks him and his
blood splatters all over the window
behind kate but no one notices it joe
goes to check on tony again this time
accompanied by ellen he calls out to him
but ends up getting no response again
joe asks ellen to keep the passengers
calm and maybe give them some food ellen
handles the situation while joe takes
his torch and tries to look outside in
the rain he doesn't spot the driver so
he closes the door he tries to reach out
for help he tells the in charge on the
phone that a dead deer broke their train
in thornton forest and the driver is
missing he asks for some advice but ends
up getting none due to the lousy weather
and bad signal joe informs the
passengers about the delay and says it
may take up to four hours to fix it
passengers start arguing with joe but he
has no answer to any of their queries
adrian calms everyone and says we have
two options we can sit here and complain
about it or we can actually do something
about it many passengers agree with
adrian to get out on their own and walk
to the station joe tries to stop them
because of the rules and safety
protocols but the passengers insist on
going adrian asks for the keys to the
door from joe but joe refuses after
multiple tries joe agrees to take the
people to the station on the condition
that they all stick together joe opens
the door and carries the torch to guide
the passage the passengers step out of
the train and start walking towards the
station billy and nina are talking while
everyone moves behind joe they stop when
they hear a sound coming from behind the
bushes they ignore it first but then
matt says the sound is getting closer
people start guessing what the thing
could be behind the bushes joe asks them
to stay put while he goes to get a
closer look at what's going around joe
looks around with the torch in his hand
he spots tony's body with his organs
eviscerated he runs and asks everyone to
start moving towards the train a howling
and growling sound can be heard in the
background passengers panic and they
start rushing towards the train the
wolf-like creature follows the people
the passengers reach the train and joe
helps them get inside one by one
everyone gets inside but an old lady
named jenny gets her leg bitten by the
creature her leg gets badly wounded and
starts bleeding a lot kate and ellen tie
a piece of cloth around jenny's leg to
stop the bleeding everyone is scared and
panicking ellen gets a first aid kit
while joe puts pressure on the wound the
wolf-like creature attacks the train
from outside trying to get in nina
starts crying and shouting when joe
tells kate to keep her quiet everyone
remains silent for some time until the
creature leaves the area jed asks the
others to get his wife to a hospital due
to her deteriorating condition joe tries
to call the authorities but ends up
finding no signal to contact them billy
comes to joe and tells him that they
need to get the engine started he
further reveals that he knows some
engineering work as his old man owns a
repair business so he can help to repair
the fuel leak joe asks the passengers to
sit tight and wait for help nina tells
him that it was like a wolf jenny agrees
with nina and says it was not an animal
it was like a man you don't understand
it passengers don't take what jenny's
saying seriously thinking that she's in
shock they all are talking when they
hear a sound coming from inside the
train joe takes a torch and billy and
adrian follow him they trace the sound
to the bathroom and find a passenger
named paul inside the toilet they are
relieved to know it was just a passenger
and not the deadly creature joe takes
paul to join the rest of the passengers
kate describes the whole story of what's
going on but paul fails to comprehend
the situation ellen informs kate of
jenny's fever and her worsening
condition nina gets worried about jenny
and asks what is wrong with her kate
tries to calm her down by talking about
her life kate tells nina about her
13-year-old daughter and nina tells her
about her mom the wolf-like creature
attacks the train again from the outside
the lights start turning on and off the
beast breaks the window and drags nina
out of it kate tries to pull her in but
lets her go the blood spreads all over
the glass window the passengers move
towards the other compartment kate
starts crying and matt tells her it's
too late for her now joe asks everyone
to shut up and remain quiet the
passengers are screaming and yelling
when judd shouts and makes everyone
silent he says animals hunt what's easy
to catch and we are sitting ducks let's
try and make it harder for that bastard
joe shows everyone the tools present on
the train they close all the entrances
and hammer the seats down to secure the
windows after getting the compartment
secure everyone sits down scared jed
gives jenny some water kate tells jenny
about her daughter and jenny replies to
her we wanted to have children but we
have each other and that's important
adrian comes to joe and tells him about
his life he shows him the different keys
one of them belonged to the house where
his wife and kids live while the other
one was for entertaining young ladies
adrian says we have to do whatever it
takes to get by even if it's not nice we
cannot get out of here with this old lot
survival of the fittest he leaves joe to
think about deceiving everyone and
getting out of the train alive jenny
starts vomiting blood joe spots paul
missing and he goes to check in on him
in the bathroom joe tries to open the
bathroom door but it gets stuck the
creature attacks again and this time
gets inside and attacks paul joe sees
the wolf-like creature eating pole joe
is scared to death but remains quiet he
tries to open the door to get back in
the secured compartment but fails
finally the passengers manage to get joe
in the compartment and close the
entrance the creature hits on the
opening over and over until he succeeds
in getting in adrian tries to break the
window but fails
[Music]
everyone decides to attack the beast
with all the tools they have got they
strike it down and beat it until it's
not conscious anymore everyone ends up
being soaked in blood crying joe looks
at the creature closely and figures out
the animal is more like a wolf and less
like a man matt takes a closer look and
says it is a hybrid between a man and a
wolf kate spots a ring on his finger and
joe says it used to be like us they put
a cloth over the body of the creature
when jed starts telling them a story jed
tells them an incident from 1963 that
took place in the same area of thornton
forest he says late night an express
came off the track somewhere near here
when emergency services got to them
there was no one left to save all sorts
of tales were told about what they found
bodies half eaten by animals some just
gone no one ever found out what happened
billy tells the people that they killed
the creature so they are safe now while
they are talking the animal wakes up and
howls other creatures listen to his
signal while he is hit again and again
by joe adrian points out that jenny is
turning into one of them and they need
to get rid of her but jed asks him to
stay away and that she is just sick
adrian tries to attack jenny but joe
stops him and ties him up along with
jenny he takes billy to the driver's
room with ellen billy decides to go and
fix the leak so they can get the train
started he explains to joe what to do
when he patches the leak after he is
done explaining he reminds them to pick
him up on their way billy and matt step
out while joe speaks to the passengers
and says i apologize for the delay few
hours ago we were just strangers and
most of you probably wish that we still
were but now we are gonna try and get
out of here we're going to do whatever
it takes to survive billy slides down
the engine and looks for the leak while
matt points a torch to give him light
kate is keeping an eye on adrian she
reminds him of the time when she came to
his office looking for a job but instead
of looking at her talent he just wanted
to sleep with her adrian tries to
trigger her and says things about her
type of girls who are looking for their
spark to work ellen tells joe that he
has helped the people out a lot tonight
matt hands over a wrench and tape to
billy when he hears a girl calling out
for help he leaves billy alone and
follows the voice after walking through
the woods for a while matt finds nina
being eaten alive by the animal he tries
to run but is surrounded by a pack of
creatures and is attacked and killed
billy hears his screaming he fixes the
leak and joe starts turning the engine
on the creatures come to the train while
billy sticks himself to the engine to
avoid getting caught jenny turns into a
wolf and breaks free she attacks and
kills her husband before she could
attack others kate breaks adrian free to
help her stop jenny the train starts
moving and joe and ellen are happy when
the creature breaks the window and gets
hold of kate adrian kicks kate out to
prevent the wolves from entering after
the train has gone some distance the
fuel leakage starts again the train
begins to slow down and the remaining
passengers panic adrian is almost killed
by jenny when joe comes and stabs and
kills her a lot of the creatures then
enter the train and they surround the
passengers from each side adrian manages
to escape by leaving joe and ellen as
bait joe tries to fight the creatures
off when billy comes in with a torch he
scares the creatures for a bit but then
gets attacked ellen and joe manage to
escape the train they run following the
track in their way after running some
distance they realize it's too late for
them to escape when the creatures
surround both of them joe kisses ellen
and tells her to run towards the station
while he stays there to stop the
creatures for as long as he can ellen
runs away while one of the creatures
bites joe in the morning ellen manages
to reach the station adrian runs around
the forest finding a way back when the
newly turned joe appears with the pack
and attacks him
[Music]